# New York AirBnB Price Predictions
Since the number of listings hit their peak just before the pandemic, prospective hosts have been seeing fewer and fewer bookings as the market has been oversaturated. Combined with the slowing economy, hosts have had a more difficult time pricing their units. Our model aims to help inform these homeowners’ decisions by analyzing the overall market and deciding what a fair price for their unit would be to base their choice off of. 

---

For this project, we used the `New York Airbnb Open Data 2024` dataset by Vrinda Kallu, available [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vrindakallu/new-york-dataset/data).

We began our data exploration by loading both a pairlot and a heatmap for our data to determine any correlations amongst the data. By viewing the data in these forms we could clearly see there appear to be a few outliers on the plots for price where we can clearly see a single point distant from the rest of the data. Also, we looked at the number of null values, unique columns, and the data types for each column before conducting data cleaning.

After conducting our initial data exploration, we first decided to drop some features that are unrelated to our question, such as ‘id’, ‘name’, ‘host_id’, 'host_name', 'latitude', and 'longitude.' We found quite a few of the features are object values as they are mixtures of strings and numerical values in the features: ratings and baths. In these features we found string values indicating these listings had no values there. We handled this by dropping the not specified values for the baths as throughout exploration we found there were only 13 listings where the number of baths was marked as “Not Specified”. On the other hand we found that 1815 of the listings had been marked as having “No Rating” or as “New” indicating it has no rating yet. Thus, we decided to perform median imputation instead of mean imputation since there was an extremely large value of outlier. Additionally to handle the categorical features we decided to one hot encode room_type and neighbourhood_group in our initial preprocessing. We also found through our exploration that the “bedrooms” feature has a mixture of numerical values and “Studio”. In order to handle this data we set all instances of “Studio” to 0 in the “bedrooms” column and made a one hot encoding column for the “Studio” values. At some point, we plan on normalizing and standardizing the data to see the importance of predicted values using weights by making it easier to compare and analyze.
